Blog - chown: Changing File and Directory File in Linux (#474)
earthly/website: blog/_posts/2023-06-15-chown-permissions-chmod.md

---
title: "chown: Changing File and Directory File in Linux"
categories:
  - Tutorials
toc: true
author: Thinus Swart

internal-links:
 - Linux
 - Directory Ownership
 - File Ownership
 - chown
 - Permissions
---

> **We're [Earthly](https://earthly.dev/). We make building software simpler and, therefore, faster. This article is about Linux file permissions and ownership If you enjoy doing things at command line you might like [Earthly](https://earthly.dev/). It's a pretty great open-source build tool.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We're [Earthly](https://earthly.dev/). We make building software simpler and, therefore, faster. This article is about Linux file permissions and ownership. If you enjoy doing things at the command line you might like [Earthly](https://earthly.dev/). It's a pretty great open-source build tool.**
```

Take a look at an example of a `chown` command in the format `chown <newowner-username> <filename>`:

~~~{.bash caption=">_"}
chown notdemo todo.txt`
~~~

If your command executes successfully, then you've changed the owner of the `todo.txt` file, thanks to the robust way that Linux handles file ownership.

However, look at this next example:

~~~{.bash caption=">_"}
demo@localhost:~$ chown notdemo todo.txt
chown: changing ownership of 'todo.txt': Operation not permitted
~~~

You see `chown` typically requires administrative-level access to the system. While it may seem like an inconvenience, it's actually an intentional safeguard that prevents users from making unauthorized changes to someone else's files.

So whether you're installing a new software package or fixing permissions on a particular directory, it's extremely likely that you'll be running this command as the [root](https://tldp.org/LDP/lame/LAME/linux-admin-made-easy/root-account.html) user.

Try the `chown` command as the root user:

~~~{.bash caption=">_"}
demo@localhost:~$ sudo -i
root@localhost:~# chown notdemo /home/demo/todo.txt
root@localhost:~# exit
~~~

> > **Please note:** Your Linux configuration or distribution may have a different method for interacting with or becoming the `root` user. Consult with your specific online documentation on how to use the [`sudo`](https://tldp.org/LDP/GNU-Linux-Tools-Summary/html/c6239.htm) command properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="notice--info">
Your Linux configuration or distribution may have a different method for interacting with or becoming the `root` user. Consult with your specific online documentation on how to use the [`sudo`](https://tldp.org/LDP/GNU-Linux-Tools-Summary/html/c6239.htm) command properly.
</div>
```
